=head1 NAME

App::Wubot::Guide::Notifications - guide to using notifications

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes how to enable notifications.  You probably
should not start at this document, as there will be no notifications
unless you have figured out how to use the monitor and reactor.  A
good place to start is probably L<App::Wubot::Guide::GettingStarted>.

=head1 Notification reactors

There are currently three notification reactors:

  - Console
  - Growl
  - IRC

The 'Growl' reactor currently only works on OS X.  These plugins could
easily be adapated to use pop-up notifications on other operating
systems, but that has not yet been done.

All three reactors look for a 'subject' field on a message, and use
that for the notification.  Messages that do not have a 'subject'
field are ignored.  Many monitors will set the 'subject' field to
something useful.  For example, the RSS plugin will set the 'subject'
field of RSS feed items to be the RSS title.  You can easily use the
reactor to remove the subject from messages when you want to suppress
notifications.

In addition to the 'subject' field, the message key will be prefixed
with the 'key' of the original monitor that generated the message, and
a timestamp of when the message was originally generated.  If the
message contains a 'username' that is also included in the
notification.

To enable the notifications, start with a rule tree that selects
messages that contain subjects.  For the complete config, skip to the
bottom.

  - name: notifications
    condition: subject is true
    rules:

=head1 User

The User reactor will parse the username field and extract any
information such as the domain name or full name from an email
address, or IRC-style username comments.  See the User reactor
documentation for more information.  This will leave you with a short
username which works better in notifications and makes it easier to
locate an icon for the user.


=head1 Console

Begin by enabing the 'Console' plugin.  This will send all subjects to
stdout in the terminal that is running wubot-reactor.  If the message
contains a 'color' field, the Console plugin will attempt to display
the message in the closest ANSI color.

      - name: console
        plugin: Console


=head1 Growl

If you have 'Growl' installed on OS X, and you have the 'growlnotify'
command line tool installed, and the L<Growl::Tiny> perl library
installed, then wubot can send a growl notification.  Enabling the
growl notifications is easy, just add a 'Growl' rule.

      - name: growl notify
        plugin: Growl

Note that network notifications must be enabled in the growl
configuration (System Preferences => Growl => Network => Listen for
incoming notifications).  Otherwise some growl notifications may not
be delivered.  For more information, please see the
BUGS_AND_LIMITATIONS section in the L<Growl::Tiny> documentation.

=head2 Icons

It is very nice to have icons, e.g. for the growl notifications or the
web ui.  The Icon plugin can be used to locate one.  This plugin looks
at a series of fields on the message (e.g. the username, the key, the
plugin, the instance name) and tries to find a custom .png file in
your icons directory that is appropriate.

      - name: growl icon
        plugin: Icon
        config:
          image_dir: /Users/your_id/.icons

=head2 Growl Colors

It is also nice to have colorized growl messages.  Unfortunately you
can't just pass a color into growl.  One trick I've found here is to
use the 'smoke' theme and then configure a different color for each
priority.  For very low, I use blue, moderate is green, normal is
black, high is orange, and emergency is red.  Then I have a rule in
the reactor which maps the name of a color to the growl priority:

      - name: growl color
        plugin: HashLookup
        config:
          source_field: color
          target_field: growl_priority
          lookup:
            red: 2
            yellow: 1
            orange: 1
            grey: 0
            bold black: 0
            green: -1
            magenta: -2
            purple: -2
            blue: -2
            cyan: -2

Now if I have a rule that runs before this rule that sets the 'color'
field to blue, this rule will set a field called 'growl_priority' in
the message which will have the priority that corresponds to the color
i set for that priority in the growl preferences.

=head2 Growl identifier

Growl has a feature called 'coalescing'.  This allows multiple
notifications to re-use a sigle bubble for notifications, with the
latest notification taking precedence.

By default, wubot will set the growl identifier for each growl
notification to be the message key.  This helps prevent message
floods, especially when starting up wubot if there are a lot of
notifications waiting in the queue.  Without a growl identifier,
dozens (or even hundreds) of notification bubbles could queue up and
prevent you from being able to work.

In some cases this may work against you.  For example, if you use the
Twitter plugin, then all notifications for a given twitter account use
the same key.  So, if multiple tweets come through quickly from
different users, they will re-use the same notification bubble--and
you may only get a chance to read the last one.  So in these
situations, you can override the default behavior by setting
'growl_id'.  For example:

  - name: twitter growl id
    condition: key matches ^Twitter AND username is true
    plugin: Template
    config:
      template: 'Twitter-{$username}'
      target_field: growl_id

This would give each person you follow on twitter a separate
notification bubble.

When overiding the default growl id, one thing to note is that if you
send a sticky notification, and then you send a non-sticky
notification with the same growl id, the non-sticky notification will
replace the sticky notification (since it will use the same bubble),
and will time out and go away like a normal non-sticky notification.
This means that your sticky window will get cleared.  Wubot tries to
prevent this sort of thing by using separate id for sticky
notifications and non-sticky notifications.  That way a sticky window
can nevery be cleared by a non-sticky window.


=head1 IRC

The IRC notification lets you send a public IRC message to a channel
or a private message to a user.  For more information, see
L<App::Wubot::Guide::IRC>.

=head1 subject_text field

If your message has a field 'subject_text', then that field will be
used for the notifications instead of the 'subject' field.  This makes
it easy to do things like strip HTML without alterting the original
subject field.  You most likely will not want html to be displayed in
the console notification or be read aloud.  You can strip HTML from
any field using the HTMLStrip plugin, e.g.:

      - name: strip HTML from subject
        condition: contains subject
        plugin: HTMLStrip
        config:
          field: subject
          target_field: subject_text

Keep this field in mind if you delete the subject field.  If you have
created a subject_text field, then even if you delete the subject
field, you could still receive a notification.  This can be confusing
if you have set 'subject_text' and then you change 'subject'--since
the changed subject won't be reflected in the notification.  The
easiest way to avoid this is simply to avoid using the subject_text
field.

=head1 Notifications Web UI

For more information, see L<App::Wubot::Web::Notify>.

You will need to start up the wubot-webui process if you haven't
already done so.  For more information, see
L<App::Wubot::Guide::WebUI>.

=head1 Reactor Config

So now let's put it all together.  The reactor config lives here:

  ~/wubot/config/reactor.yaml

Here are the final contents of the reactor config.

Warning: if you are not familiar with YAML, it is extremely sensitive
to whitespace!



  ---
  rules:

    - name: notifications
      condition: subject is true
      rules:

        - name: strip HTML from subject
          condition: contains subject
          plugin: HTMLStrip
          config:
            field: subject
            target_field: subject_text

        - name: user field parser
          plugin: User

        - name: console
          plugin: Console

        - name: growl color
          plugin: HashLookup
          config:
            source_field: color
            target_field: growl_priority
            lookup:
              red: 2
              yellow: 1
              orange: 1
              grey: 0
              bold black: 0
              green: -1
              magenta: -2
              purple: -2
              blue: -2
              cyan: -2

        - name: growl icon
          plugin: Icon
          config:
            image_dir: /Users/your_id/.icons

        - name: growl notify
          plugin: Growl

        - name: notify sql table
          plugin: SQLite
          config:
            file: /Users/wu/wubot/sqlite/notify.sql
            tablename: notifications


=head1 Starting the Reactor

To start the reactor, simply run:  wubot-reactor
