=head1 NAME

App::Wubot::Guide::Tasks - guide to using wubot to monitor tasks


=head1 STATUS

This document and all the tools referenced in it are still under
development.  I am using them now, but there are still a few rough
edges.  They are not yet ready for mass consumption.


=head1 DESCRIPTION

I keep all my tasks in Emacs Org-Mode.

  - http://orgmode.org/

I use wubot to parse my tasks out of my org-mode files and store them
in a database.  I use monitor plugins to monitor the tas database and
send me notifications when tasks are coming due.  And I also use the
web interface to review my task list.


=head1 PARSING ORG FILES

Right now the emacs or parsing is not very good, but I am planning to
use L<Org::Parser> in the future.


=head1 COMPONENTS

L<App::Wubot::Plugin::EmacsOrgMode> - monitors ~/org directory for new
files that contain TODO items that have a scheduled or deadline date.

L<App::Wubot::Plugin::TaskDB> - monitors the task database for the highest
priority task in the queue.

L<App::Wubot::Plugin::TaskNotify> - monitors the task database for items
that have a scheduled or deadline date that is due within the next 15
minutes.

L<App::Wubot::Util::Tasks> - utility class where most of the parsing and
database work is done.  Used by the other classes.

L<App::Wubot::Web::Tasks> - web user interface for tasks.


=head1 LIMITATIONS

One of the problems with using emacs org-mode is that I have the files
open in emacs, and so I can't modify them directly from within the
wubot web ui.  So currently wubot uses emacsclient to tell emacs to
open a task file to a specific heading, or even to mark a task as
complete.

Most of these components are reusable, i.e. there could be other
plugins that monitor other systems that contain tasks, and if they
generated tasks messages in the same format as the EmacsOrgMode
plugin, then the task monitor and web interface would work without
modification.

