=head1 NAME

App::Wubot::Guide::WebUI - guide for using the wubot web interface

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The web interface was recently changed from using L<Mojolicious::Lite>
to L<Mojolicious>.  So the instructions for starting up the webui have
changed.

The recommended method for using the web ui is to clone the wubot git
repository and run the web ui from there.

  git clone git://github.com/wu/wubot.git
  cd wubot
  cp config/webui.yaml ~/wubot/config/
  bin/wubot-webui daemon

If you do not have git installed, you can also download and expand the
tarball from github rather than using the 'git clone' command above.

=head1 RSS Feeds

The web interface can be used to serve out RSS feeds.  You can take
data from one or more incoming feeds (from wubot-monitor), filter it,
modify it (e.g. strip html or images), and so forth.  You can combine
multiple feeds together into a single RSS feed or you can take a
single RSS feed and split it out into multiple feeds.  You can even
take data from other sources (e.g. an mbox, irc), use some rules to
adapt the schema, and then send it out as an RSS feed.

The Web UI reads the data out of the RSS SQLite database.  You can
easily stick any data from the monitors into a SQLite database using
the SQLite reactor plugin.  You just need to give it the path to a
SQLite database, the name of the table, and the schema to be used for
the table.  Here is a rule that would add all incoming RSS feeds to
the wubot RSS SQLite database:

    - name: rss sqlite
      condition: key matches ^RSS AND mailbox is true
      plugin: SQLite
      config:
        file: /home/myuserid/wubot/sqlite/rss.sql
        tablename: feeds

The schema for the 'feeds' table lives in the config/schemas directory
of the wubot project.  The feeds.yaml file should be copied to
~/wubot/schemas/ along with the other schemas.

Note that one of the fields on the sqlite table is the 'mailbox'.
This is very important for outgoing RSS feed, since it determines the
name of the outgoing feed.  For example, if you set the 'mailbox'
field in your message to be 'news', then once the message has been
stored in the RSS database, you could access your feed in an RSS
reader here:

  http://localhost:3000/rss/news.xml

If you don't give your data a mailbox, then you won't be able to
access it through the Web UI!  For more information, see the
L<App::Wubot::Guide::GettingStarted> document.
